1. **CS 250 - VLSI Systems Design** (4 unit)

	Unified top-down and bottom-up design of integrated circuits and systems concentrating on architectural and topological issues. VLSI architectures, systolic arrays, self-timed systems. Trends in VLSI development. Physical limits. Tradeoffs in custom-design, standard cells, gate arrays. VLSI design tools.

2. **CS 253 - Software Engineering and Artificial Intelligence** (3 unit)

	Software Development Methodologies, emphasizing the basic ideas and discipline of software engineering and their comparative evaluation. Rapid Prototyping, Software Reuse and Automated Generation of Software. Software Design Methods. Object-oriented design and programming. Testing and validation. Software Reliability theory. Software Metrics and models. Sofware Tools and their issues. Software maintenance. Application of AI techniques. Problem solving using rule-based inference techniques. Design of Intelligent Software Development Environment (ISDE). Distributed Software Engineering. Distributed Planning, cooperation among knowledge bases, Intelligent Planning, the Coop Project. Term project demos and discussions.

3. **CS 254 - Topics in VLSI Chip Design and Implementation** (4 unit)

	<Formerly 292I>. Design implementation and testing of LSI/VLSI multi-project chips. Apply the design techniques learned in CS 250 to build systems on silicon chips. Design for testability, preparation of test system and systematic testing of the fabricated chips.

4. **CS 258 - Parallel Processors** (3 unit)

	In-depth study of the design, engineering, and evaluation of modern parallel computers. Fundamental design: naming, synchronization, latency, and bandwidth. Architectural evolution and technological driving forces. Parallel programming models, communication primitives, programming and compilation techniques, multiprogramming workloads and methodology for quantitative evaluation. Latency avoidance through replication in small-scale and large-scale shared memory designs; cache-coherency, protocols, directories, and memory consistency models. Message passing: protocols, storage management, and deadlock. Efficient network interface, protection, events, active messages, and coprocessors in large-scale designs. Latency tolerance through prefetching, multithreading, dynamic instruction scheduling, and software techniques. Network design: topology, packaging, k-ary n-cubes, performance under contention. Synchronization: global operations, mutual exclusion, and events. Alternative architectures: dataflow, SIMD, systoltic arrays.

5. **CS 261 - Security in Computer Systems** (3 unit)

	Graduate survey of modern topics in computer security, including protection, access control, distributed access security, firewalls, secure coding practices, safe languages, mobile code, and case studies from real-world systems. May also cover cryptographic protocols, privacy and anonymity, and/or other topics as time permits.

6. **CS 263 - Design of Programming Languages** (3 unit)

	Selected topics from: analysis, comparison, and design of programming languages, formal description of syntax and semantics, advanced programming techniques, structured programming, debugging, verification of programs and compilers, and proofs of correctness.

7. **CS 264 - Implementation of Programming Languages** (4 unit)

	Compiler construction. Lexical analysis, syntax analysis. Semantic analysis code generation and optimization. Storage management. Run-time organization.

8. **CS 265 - Compiler Optimization and Code Generation** (3 unit)

	Table-driven and retargetable code generators. Register management. Flow analysis and global optimization methods. Code optimization for advanced languages and architectures. Local code improvement. Optimization by program transformation. Selected additional topics. A term paper or project is required.

9. **CS 266 - Introduction to System Performance Analysis** (3 unit)

	Performance indices. Evaluation techniques. Measurement: instrumentation, design of experiments, interpretation of results. Simulation modeling: simulator design, model calibration, statistical analysis of output data. Introduction to analytic modeling. Workload characterization. Tuning, procurement, and capacity planning application. Program performance evaluation. File and I/O system optimization. CPU Scheduling and architecture performance analysis.

10. **CS 268 - Computer Networks** (3 unit)

	Distributed systems, their notivations, applications, and organization. The network component. Network architectures. Local and long-haul networks, technologies, and topologies. Data link, network, and transport protocols. Point-to-point and broadcast networks. Routing and congestion control. Higher-level protocols. Naming. Internetworking. Examples and case studies.

11. **CS 269 - Advanced Topics in Distributed Computing Systems** (2 unit)

	Building distributed computing systems, issues and techniques; communication, distributed data, identification of resources and their distributed management, decentralized synchronization mechanisms, security and protection, performance and modeling of distributed systems, programming language and system support for distributed applications.

12. **CS 270 - Combinatorial Algorithms and Data Structures** (3 unit)

	Design and analysis of efficient algorithms for combinatorial problems. Network flow theory, matching theory, matroid theory; augmenting-path algorithms; branch-and-bound algorithms; data structure techniques for efficient implementation of combinatorial algorithms; analysis of data structures; applications of data structure techniques to sorting, searching, and geometric problems.

13. **CS 271 - Randomness and Computation** (3 unit)

	Computational applications of randomness and computational theories of randomness. Approximate counting and uniform generation of combinatorial objects, rapid convergence of random walks on expander graphs, explicit construction of expander graphs, randomized reductions, Kolmogorov complexity, pseudo-random number generation, semi-random sources.

14. **CS 273 - Foundations of Parallel Computation** (3 unit)

	<Formerly 292K>. Fundamental theoretical issues in designing parallel algorithms and architectures. Shared memory models of parallel computation. Parallel algorithms for linear algegra, sorting, Fourier Transform, recurrence evaluation, and graph problems. Interconnection network based models. Algorithm design techniques for networks like hypercubes, shuffle-exchanges, threes, meshes and butterfly networks. Systolic arrays and techniques for generating them. Message routing.

15. **CS 274 - Computational Geometry** (3 unit)

	<Formerly 292T>. Constructive problems in computational geometry: convex hulls, triangulations, Voronoi diagrams, arrangements of hyperplanes; relationships among these problems. Search problems: advanced data structures; subdivision search; various kinds of range searches. Models of computation; lower bounds.

16. **CS 277 - Concrete Complexity** (3 unit)

	The study of inherent complexity of specific computational problems. Circuit complexity, branching programs, decision tree models, sorting and selection, evasive graph properties, algebraic complexity, communication complexity, VLSI complexity, time/space trade-offs.

17. **CS 278 - Machine-Based Complexity Theory** (3 unit)

	Properties of abstract complexity measures; Determinism vs. nondeterminism; time vs. space; complexity hierarchies; aspects of the P-NP question; relative power of various abstract machines.

18. **CS 281 - Machine Learning** (3 unit)

	Learning from the point of view of artificial intelligence with contributions from philosophy and psychology. Readings and discussion will cover concept learning, compilation and intelligent caching, knowledge-based generalization, reasoning by analogy, inductive learning, architectures for general learning systems, knowledge-level analysis of learning systems. A substantial project will be undertaken.

19. **CS 282 - Algebraic Algorithms** (3 unit)

	Theory and construction of symbolic algebraic computer programs. Polynomial arithmetic, GCD, factorization, integration of elementary functions, analytic approximation, simplification, design of computer systems and languages for symbolic manipulation.

20. **CS 285 - Deep Reinforcement Learning, Decision Making, and Control** (3 unit)

	Intersection of control, reinforcement learning, and deep learning. Deep learning methods, which train large parametric function approximators, achieve excellent results on problems that require reasoning about unstructured real-world situations (e.g., computer vision, speech recognition, NLP). Advanced treatment of the reinforcement learning formalism, the most critical model-free reinforcement learning algorithms (policy gradients, value function and Q-function learning, and actor-critic), a discussion of model-based reinforcement learning algorithms, an overview of imitation learning, and a range of advanced topics (e.g., exploration, model-based learning with video prediction, transfer learning, multi-task learning, and meta-learning).

21. **CS 287 - Advanced Robotics** (3 unit)

	Advanced topics related to current research in algorithms and artificial intelligence for robotics. Planning, control, and estimation for realistic robot systems, taking into account: dynamic constraints, control and sensing uncertainty, and non-holonomic motion constraints.

22. **CS 288 - Natural Language Processing** (4 unit)

	Methods and models for the analysis of natural (human) language data.  Topics include: language modeling, speech recognition, linguistic analysis (syntactic parsing, semantic analysis, reference resolution, discourse modeling), machine translation, information extraction, question answering, and computational linguistics techniques.

23. **CS 289 - Knowledge Representation and Use in Computers** (3 unit)

	Fundamentals of knowledge representation and use in computers. Predicate calculus, non-monotonic logics, probability and decision theory, and their use in capturing commonsense and expert knowledge. Theorem-provers, planning systems belief networks and influence diagrams as reasoning methods. Integrated architectures for intelligent agents. A project will be undertaken.

24. **CS 297 - Field Studies in Computer Science** (0-12 unit)

	Supervised experience in off-campus companies relevant to specific aspects and applications of electrical engineering and/or computer science. Written report required at the end of the semester.

25. **CS 299 - Individual Research** (1-12 unit)

	Investigations of problems in computer science.

26. **EE 210 - Applied Electromagnetic Theory** (3 unit)

	Advanced treatment of classical electromagnetic theory with engineering applications. Boundary value problems in electrostatics. Applications of Maxwell's Equations to the study of waveguides, resonant cavities, optical fiber guides, Gaussian optics, diffraction, scattering, and antennas.

27. **EE 215 - Power Systems** (3 unit)

	Computer-aided analysis methods for power systems planning and operation. Demand forecasting. Reliability evaluation. Probabilistic production costs calculation. System planning optimization. Real-time security analysis and control. Power flows. State estimation. External network modeling. Optimal power flows. Transient stability.

28. **EE 216 - Antennas and Propagation** (3 unit)

	Application of Maxwell's Equations to the study of antennas and the propagation of electromagnetic waves. Basic concepts of antennas as devices in communication systems. Analysis of wire antennas, arrays of elements, horns, reflector and lens systems, frequency independent antennas. The propagation of waves over the earth and in inhomogeneous and random media.

29. **EE 217 - Microwave Circuits** (3 unit)

	Techniques of analog circuit technology in the high-frequency regime above 1 GHz. Transmission lines and distributed circuit elements; S-parameter design of high-frequency active circuits; computer-aided analysis and design. Emphasis on design of planar high-frequency integrated circuits employing CMOS and SiGe technology. Circuit building blocks for broadband wired and wireless communication will be emphasized including oscillators, low-noise amplifiers, and power amplifiers.

30. **EE 222 - Nonlinear Systems--Analysis, Stability and Control** (3 unit)

	Basic graduate course in non-linear systems. Second Order systems. Numerical solution methods, the describing function method, linearization. Stability - direct and indirect methods of Lyapunov. Applications to the Lure problem - Popov, circle criterion. Input-Output stability. Additional topics include: bifurcations of dynamical systems, introduction to the "geometric" theory of control for nonlinear systems, passivity concepts and dissipative dynamical systems.

31. **EE 223 - Stochastic Systems: Estimation and Control** (3 unit)

	Parameter and state estimation. System identification. Nonlinear filtering. Stochastic control. Adaptive control.

32. **EE 229 - Information Theory and Coding** (3 unit)

	<Formerly EECS 229B> Fundamental bounds of Shannon theory and their application. Source and channel coding theorems. Galois field theory, algebraic error-correction codes. Private and public-key cryptographic systems.

33. **EE 232 - Lightwave Devices** (4 unit)

	This course is designed to give an introduction and overview of the fundamentals of optoelectronic devices. Topics such as optical gain and absorption spectra, quantization effects, strained quantum wells, optical waveguiding and coupling, and hetero p-n junction will be covered. This course will focus on basic physics and design principles of semiconductor diode lasers, light emitting diodes, photodetectors and integrated optics. Practical applications of the devices will be also discussed.

34. **EE 233 - Lightwave Systems** (3 unit)

	Transmission properties of optical fibers - dispersion, attenuation, nonlinear effects (solitons). Direct-detection systems: analog and digital modulation, transmitter design, receiver design, noise properties of single and multimode fiber links, dependence on source coherence, subcarrier and multichannel CATV analog transmission issues the role of optical fiber amplifiers. Coherent communication: FM noise and modulation properties of laser diodes, quantum limited detection, homodyne and heterodyne detection of various formats, laser linewidth requirements, diversity issues. Lightwave networks - WDMA, FDMA, subcarrier, TDMA, and CDMA, relative merits. Topological issues - multihop (sore-and-forward) and hot-potato routing, the role of optical switching. Optical network access protocols. Optical interconnection in high speed circuit modules and computers.

35. **EE 238 - Superconductive Devices and Circuits** (3 unit)

	Introduction to superconductivity. Electron pairing. BCS and Ginzburg-Landau theories. Single-particle and Josephson tunneling. Electrodynamics of superconductors and Josephson junctions. Proximity effect. Mixed state in type II superconductors. Thin films. Applications in analog and digital circuits. Fabrication technology.

36. **EE 243 - Advanced IC Processing and Layout** (3 unit)

	The key processes for the fabrication of integrated circuits. Optical, X-ray, and e-beam lithography, ion implantation, oxidation and diffusion. Thin film deposition. Wet and dry etching and ion milling. Effect of phase and defect equilibria on process control.

37. **EE 249 - Embedded System Design: Models, Validation, and Synthesis** (4 unit)

	Principles of embedded system design. Focus on design methodologies and foundations. Platform-based design and communication-based design and their relationship with design time, re-use, and performance. Models of computation and their use in design capture, manipulation, verification, and synthesis. Mapping into architecture and system platforms. Performance estimation. Scheduling and real-time requirements. Synchronous languages and time-triggered protocols to simplify the design process. Simulation techniques for highly programmable platforms. Synthesis and successive refinement: meta-model of computation. Use of design tools and analysis of their capabilities and limitations: Ptolemy, POLIS, Metropolis, VCC, Co-ware.

38. **EE 290 - Advanced Topics in Electrical Engineering** (1-4 unit)

	The 290 courses cover current topics of research interest in electrical engineering. The course content may vary from semester to semester.

39. **EE 297 - Field Studies in Electrical Engineering** (0-12 unit)

	Supervised experience in off-campus companies relevant to specific aspects and applications of electrical engineering. Written report required at the end of the semester.

40. **EECS 208 - Computational Principles for High-dimensional Data Analysis** (4 unit)

	Introduction to fundamental geometric and statistical concepts and principles of low-dimensional models for high-dimensional signal and data analysis, spanning basic theory, efficient algorithms, and diverse real-world applications. Systematic study of both sampling complexity and computational complexity for sparse, low-rank, and low-dimensional models – including important cases such as matrix completion, robust principal component analysis, dictionary learning, and deep networks.

