1. CS 152 - Computer Architecture and Engineering (4 unit)
Instruction set architecture, microcoding, pipelining (simple and complex). Memory hierarchies and virtual memory. Processor parallelism: VLIW, vectors, multithreading. Multiprocessors.

2. CS 160 - User Interface Design and Development (4 unit)
The design, implementation, and evaluation of user interfaces. User-centered design and task analysis. Conceptual models and interface metaphors. Usability inspection and evaluation methods. Analysis of user study data. Input methods (keyboard, pointing, touch, tangible) and input models. Visual design principles. Interface prototyping and implementation methodologies and tools. Students will develop a user interface for a specific task and target user group in teams.

3. CS 161 - Computer Security (4 unit)
Introduction to computer security. Cryptography, including encryption, authentication, hash functions, cryptographic protocols, and applications. Operating system security, access control. Network security, firewalls, viruses, and worms. Software security, defensive programming, and language-based security. Case studies from real-world systems.

4. CS 162 - Operating Systems and System Programming (4 unit)
Basic concepts of operating systems and system programming. Utility programs, subsystems, multiple-program systems. Processes, interprocess communication, and synchronization. Memory allocation, segmentation, paging. Loading and linking, libraries. Resource allocation, scheduling, performance evaluation. File systems, storage devices, I/O systems. Protection, security, and privacy.

5. CS 164 - Programming Languages and Compilers (4 unit)
Survey of programming languages. The design of modern programming languages. Principles and techniques of scanning, parsing, semantic analysis, and code generation. Implementation of compilers, interpreters, and assemblers. Overview of run-time organization and error handling.

6. CS 167 - Introduction to Distributed Systems (4 unit)
Basic concepts of distributed systems. Network architecture and internet routing. Message passing layers and remote procedure call. Process migration. Distributed file systems and cache coherence. Server design for reliability, availability, and scalability. Internet security and electronic commerce. Sample applications from the WWW to email to parallel processing. Distributed system implementation to be done as course project.

7. CS 168 - Introduction to the Internet: Architecture and Protocols (4 unit)
This course is an introduction to the Internet architecture. We will focus on the concepts and fundamental design principles that have contributed to the Internet's scalability and robustness and survey the various protocols and algorithms used within this architecture. Topics include layering, addressing, intradomain routing, interdomain routing, reliable delivery, congestion control, and the core protocols (e.g., TCP, UDP, IP, DNS, and HTTP) and network technologies (e.g., Ethernet, wireless).

8. CS 169 - Software Engineering (4 unit)
Ideas and techniques for designing, developing, and modifying large software systems. Function-oriented and object-oriented modular design techniques, designing for re-use and maintainability. Specification and documentation. Verification and validation. Cost and quality metrics and estimation. Project team organization and management. Students will work in teams on a substantial programming project.

9. CS 170 - Efficient Algorithms and Intractable Problems (4 unit)
Concept and basic techniques in the design and analysis of algorithms; models of computation; lower bounds; algorithms for optimum search trees, balanced trees and UNION-FIND algorithms; numerical and algebraic algorithms; combinatorial algorithms. Turing machines, how to count steps, deterministic and nondeterministic Turing machines, NP-completeness. Unsolvable and intractable problems.

10. CS 171 - Cryptography (4 unit)
Cryptography or cryptology is the science of designing algorithms and protocols for enabling parties to communicate and compute securely in an untrusted environment (e.g. secure communication, digital signature, etc.) Over the last four decades, cryptography has transformed from an ad hoc collection of mysterious tricks into a rigorous science based on firm complexity-theoretic foundations.  This modern complexity-theoretic approach to cryptography will be the focus. E.g., in the context of encryption we will begin by giving a precise mathematical definition for what it means to be a secure encryption scheme and then give a construction (realizing this security notion) assuming various computational hardness assumptions (e.g. factoring).

11. CS 172 - Computability and Complexity (4 unit)
Finite automata, Turing machines and RAMs. Undecidable, exponential, and polynomial-time problems. Polynomial-time equivalence of all reasonable models of computation. Nondeterministic Turing machines. Theory of NP-completeness: Cook's theorem, NP-completeness of basic problems. Selected topics in language theory, complexity and randomness.

12. CS 174 - Combinatorics and Discrete Probability (4 unit)
Permutations, combinations, principle of inclusion and exclusion, generating functions, Ramsey theory. Expectation and variance, Chebychev's inequality, Chernov bounds. Birthday paradox, coupon collector's problem, Markov chains and entropy computations, universal hashing, random number generation, random graphs and probabilistic existence bounds.

13. CS 176 - Algorithms for Computational Biology (4 unit)
Algorithms and probabilistic models that arise in various computational biology applications: suffix trees, suffix arrays, pattern matching, repeat finding, sequence alignment, phylogenetics, genome rearrangements, hidden Markov models, gene finding, motif finding, stochastic context free grammars, RNA secondary structure. There are no biology prerequisites for this course, but a strong quantitative background will be essential.

14. CS 180 - Intro to Computer Vision and Computational Photography (4 unit)
This advanced undergraduate course introduces students to computing with visual data (images and video). We will cover acquisition, representation, and manipulation of visual information from digital photographs (image processing), image analysis and visual understanding (computer vision), and image synthesis (computational photography). Key algorithms will be presented, ranging from classical to contemporary, with an emphasis on using these techniques to build practical systems. The hands-on emphasis will be reflected in the programming assignments, where students will acquire their own images and develop, largely from scratch, image analysis and synthesis tools for real-world applications.

15. CS 182 - Designing, Visualizing and Understanding Deep Neural Networks (4 unit)
Deep Networks have revolutionized computer vision, language technology, robotics and control. They have growing impact in many other areas of science and engineering. They do not however, follow a closed or compact set of theoretical principles. In Yann Lecun's words they require "an interplay between intuitive insights, theoretical modeling, 
practical implementations, empirical studies, and scientific analyses." This course attempts to cover that ground.

16. CS 184 - Foundations of Computer Graphics (4 unit)
Techniques of modeling objects for the purpose of computer rendering: boundary representations, constructive solids geometry, hierarchical scene descriptions. Mathematical techniques for curve and surface representation. Basic elements of a computer graphics rendering pipeline; architecture of modern graphics display devices. Geometrical transformations such as rotation, scaling, translation, and their matrix representations. Homogeneous coordinates, projective and perspective transformations. Algorithms for clipping, hidden surface removal, rasterization, and anti-aliasing. Scan-line based and ray-based rendering algorithms. Lighting models for reflection, refraction, transparency.

17. CS 186 - Introduction to Database Systems (4 unit)
Access methods and file systems to facilitate data access. Hierarchical, network, relational, and object-oriented data models. Query languages for models. Embedding query languages in programming languages. Database services including protection, integrity control, and alternative views of data. High-level interfaces including application generators, browsers, and report writers. Introduction to transaction processing. Database system implementation to be done as term project.

18. CS 188 - Introduction to Artificial Intelligence (4 unit)
Ideas and techniques underlying the design of intelligent computer systems. Topics include search, game playing, knowledge representation, inference, planning, reasoning under uncertainty, machine learning, robotics, perception, and language understanding.

19. CS 189 - Introduction to Machine Learning (4 unit)
Theoretical foundations, algorithms, methodologies, and applications for machine learning. Topics may include supervised methods for regression and classication (linear models, trees, neural networks, ensemble methods, instance-based methods); generative and discriminative probabilistic models; Bayesian parametric learning; density estimation and clustering; Bayesian networks; time series models; dimensionality reduction; programming projects covering a variety of real-world applications.

20. CS 194 - Special Topics (1-4 unit)
Topics will vary semester to semester. See the Computer Science Division announcements.

21. CS 195 - Social Implications of Computer Technology (1 unit)
Topics include electronic community; the changing nature of work; technological risks; the information economy; intellectual property; privacy; artificial intelligence and the sense of self; pornography and censorship; professional ethics. Students will lead discussions on additional topics.

22. CS 197 - Field Study (1-4 unit)
Students take part in organized individual field sponsored programs with off-campus companies or tutoring/mentoring relevant to specific aspects and applications of computer science on or off campus. Note Summer CPT or OPT students: written report required. Course does not count toward major requirements, but will be counted in the cumulative units toward graduation.

23. CS 198 - Directed Group Studies for Advanced Undergraduates (1-4 unit)
Group study of selected topics in Computer Sciences, usually relating to new developments.

24. CS 199 - Supervised Independent Study (1-4 unit)
Supervised independent study. Enrollment restrictions apply.

25. EE 104 - Linear and Nonlinear Circuits (5 unit)
Kirchhoff's laws. Telegen's theorem. Circuit elements (including op amps). Simple nonlinear circuits. General network analysis. Sinusoidal steady-state analysis. Laplace transform. Convolution. Network theorems. Natural frequencies. Stability. Network functions: poles and zeros; magnitude and phase. Two-ports. Filter approximation, synthesis, sensitivity.

26. EE 105 - Microelectronic Devices and Circuits (4 unit)
This course covers the fundamental circuit and device concepts needed to understand analog integrated circuits. After an overview of the basic properties of semiconductors, the p-n junction and MOS capacitors are described and the MOSFET is modeled as a large-signal device. Two port small-signal amplifiers and their realization using single stage and multistage CMOS building blocks are discussed. Sinusoidal steady-state signals are introduced and the techniques of phasor analysis are developed, including impedance and the magnitude and phase response of linear circuits. The frequency responses of single and multi-stage amplifiers are analyzed. Differential amplifiers are introduced.

27. EE 113 - Power Electronics (4 unit)
Power conversion circuits and techniques. Characterization and design of magnetic devices including transformers, reactors, and electromagnetic machinery. Characteristics of bipolar and MOS power semiconductor devices. Applications to motor control, switching power supplies, lighting, power systems, and other areas as appropriate.

28. EE 114 - Power Systems Analysis (3 unit)
Introduction to electric power systems with emphasis on the transmission network. Load flow analysis and control. Economic operation. Introduction to stability analysis. Synchronous machine modeling. The control problem. Short circuit analysis.

29. EE 117 - Electromagnetic Fields and Waves (4 unit)
Review of static electric and magnetic fields and applications; Maxwell's equations; transmission lines; propagation and reflection of plane waves; introduction to guided waves, microwave networks, and radiation and antennas. Minilabs on statics, transmission lines, and waves. Explanation of cellphone antennas, WiFi communication, and other wireless technologies.

30. EE 118 - Introduction to Optical Engineering (4 unit)
Fundamental principles of optical systems. Geometrical optics and aberration theory. Stops and apertures, prisms, and mirrors. Diffraction and interference. Optical materials and coatings. Radiometry and photometry. Basic optical devices and the human eye. The design of optical systems. Lasers, fiber optics, and holography.

31. EE 120 - Signals and Systems (4 unit)
Continuous and discrete-time transform analysis techniques with illustrative applications. Linear and time-invariant systems, transfer functions. Fourier series, Fourier transform, Laplace and Z-transforms. Sampling and reconstruction. Solution of differential and difference equations using transforms. Frequency response, Bode plots, stability analysis. Illustrated by analysis of communication systems and feedback control systems.

32. EE 121 - Introduction to Digital Communication Systems (4 unit)
Introduction to the basic principles of the design and analysis of modern digital communication systems. Topics include source coding, channel coding, baseband and passband modulation techniques, receiver design, and channel equalization. Applications to design of digital telephone modems, compact disks, and digital wireless communication systems. Concepts illustrated by a sequence of MATLAB exercises.

33. EE 122 - Introduction to Communication Networks (4 unit)
This course focuses on the fundamentals of the wired and wireless communication networks. The course covers both the architectural principles for making these networks scalable and robust, as well as the key techniques essential for analyzing and designing them. The topics include graph theory, Markov chains, queuing, optimization techniques, the physical and link layers, switching, transport, cellular networks and Wi-Fi.

34. EE 123 - Digital Signal Processing (4 unit)
Discrete time signals and systems: Fourier and Z transforms, DFT, 2-dimensional versions. Digital signal processing topics: flow graphs, realizations, FFT, chirp-Z algorithms, Hilbert transform relations, quantization effects, linear prediction. Digital filter design methods: windowing, frequency sampling, S-to-Z methods, frequency-transformation methods, optimization methods, 2-dimensional filter design.

35. EE 126 - Probability and Random Processes (4 unit)
This course covers the fundamentals of probability and random processes useful in fields such as networks, communication, signal processing, and control. Sample space, events, probability law. Conditional probability. Independence. Random variables. Distribution, density functions. Random vectors. Law of large numbers. Central limit theorem. Estimation and detection. Markov chains.

36. EE 130 - Integrated-Circuit Devices (4 unit)
Overview of electronic properties of semiconductor. Metal-semiconductor contacts, pn junctions, bipolar transistors, and MOS field-effect transistors. Properties that are significant to device operation for integrated circuits. Silicon device fabrication technology.

37. EE 131 - Semiconductor Electronics (3 unit)
Physics of solid-state electronics. Review of quantum-mechanical principles, crystal structure, lattice vibrations, band theory, electrons and holes, diffusion and drift, recombination, high-field phenomena, optical effects, device applications. Several one-hour minilabs done in pairs with the aid of a Teaching Assistant.

38. EE 134 - Fundamentals of Photovoltaic Devices (4 unit)
This course is designed to give an introduction to, and overview of, the fundamentals of photovoltaic devices. Students will learn how solar cells work, understand the concepts and models of solar cell device physics, and formulate and solve relevant physical problems related to photovoltaic devices. Monocrystalline, thin film and third generation solar cells will be discussed and analyzed. Light management and economic considerations in a solar cell system will also be covered.

39. EE 140 - Linear Integrated Circuits (4 unit)
Single and multiple stage transistor amplifiers. Operational amplifiers. Feedback amplifiers, 2-port formulation, source, load, and feedback network loading. Frequency response of cascaded amplifiers, gain-bandwidth exchange, compensation, dominant pole techniques, root locus. Supply and temperature independent biasing and references. Selected applications of analog circuits such as analog-to-digital converters, switched capacitor filters, and comparators. Hardware laboratory and design project.

40. EE 142 - Integrated Circuits for Communications (4 unit)
Analysis and design of electronic circuits for communication systems, with an emphasis on integrated circuits for wireless communication systems. Analysis of noise and distortion in amplifiers with application to radio receiver design. Power amplifier design with application to wireless radio transmitters. Radio-frequency mixers, oscillators, phase-locked loops, modulators, and demodulators.

41. EE 143 - Microfabrication Technology (4 unit)
Integrated circuit device fabrication and surface micromachining technology. Thermal oxidation, ion implantation, impurity diffusion, film deposition, expitaxy, lithography, etching, contacts and interconnections, and process integration issues. Device design and mask layout, relation between physical structure and electrical/mechanical performance. MOS transistors and poly-Si surface microstructures will be fabricated in the laboratory and evaluated.

42. EE 144 - Fundamental Algorithms for Systems Modeling, Analysis, and Optimization (4 unit)
The modeling, analysis, and optimization of complex systems requires a range of algorithms and design software. This course reviews the fundamental techniques underlying the design methodology for complex systems, using integrated circuit design as example. Topics include design flows, discrete and continuous models and algorithms, and strategies for implementing algorithms efficiently and correctly in software. Laboratory assignments and a class project will expose students to state-of-the-art tools.

43. EE 147 - Introduction to Microelectromechanical Systems (MEMS) (3 unit)
This course will teach fundamentals of micromachining and microfabrication techniques, including planar thin-film process technologies, photolithographic techniques, deposition and etching techniques, and the other technologies that are central to MEMS fabrication. It will pay special attention to teaching of fundamentals necessary for the design and analysis of devices and systems in mechanical, electrical, fluidic, and thermal energy/signal domains, and will teach basic techniques for multi-domain analysis. Fundamentals of sensing and transduction mechanisms including capacitive and piezoresistive techniques, and design and analysis of micmicromachined miniature sensors and actuators using these techniques will be covered.

44. EE 192 - Mechatronic Design Laboratory (4 unit)
Design project course, focusing on application of theoretical principles in electrical engineering to control of a small-scale system, such as a mobile robot. Small teams of students will design and construct a mechatronic system incorporating sensors, actuators, and intelligence.

45. EE 198 - Directed Group Study for Advanced Undergraduates (1-4 unit)
Group study of selected topics in electrical engineering, usually relating to new developments.

46. EECS 127 - Optimization Models in Engineering (4 unit)
This course offers an introduction to optimization models and their applications, ranging from machine learning and statistics to decision-making and control, with emphasis on numerically tractable problems, such as linear or constrained least-squares optimization.

47. EECS 149 - Introduction to Embedded and Cyber Physical Systems (4 unit)
This course introduces students to the basics of modeling, analysis, and design of embedded, cyber-physical systems. Students learn how to integrate computation with physical processes to meet a desired specification. Topics include models of computation, control, analysis and verification, interfacing with the physical world, real-time behaviors, mapping to platforms, and distributed embedded systems. The course has a strong laboratory component, with emphasis on a semester-long sequence of projects.

48. EECS 151 - Introduction to Digital Design and Integrated Circuits (3 unit)
An introduction to digital and system design. The material provides a top-down view of the principles, components, and methodologies for large scale digital system design. The underlying CMOS devices and manufacturing technologies are introduced, but quickly abstracted to higher-levels to focus the class on design of larger digital modules for both FPGAs (field programmable gate arrays) and ASICs (application specific integrated circuits). The class includes extensive use of industrial grade design automation and verification tools for assignments, labs and projects.  
The class has two lab options: ASIC Lab (EECS 151LA) and FPGA Lab (EECS 151LB). Students must enroll in at least one of the labs concurrently with the class.

