## EE 104 - Linear and Nonlinear Circuits (5 unit)
Kirchhoff's laws. Telegen's theorem. Circuit elements (including op amps). Simple nonlinear circuits. General network analysis. Sinusoidal steady-state analysis. Laplace transform. Convolution. Network theorems. Natural frequencies. Stability. Network functions: poles and zeros; magnitude and phase. Two-ports. Filter approximation, synthesis, sensitivity.
## EE 105 - Microelectronic Devices and Circuits (4 unit)
This course covers the fundamental circuit and device concepts needed to understand analog integrated circuits. After an overview of the basic properties of semiconductors, the p-n junction and MOS capacitors are described and the MOSFET is modeled as a large-signal device. Two port small-signal amplifiers and their realization using single stage and multistage CMOS building blocks are discussed. Sinusoidal steady-state signals are introduced and the techniques of phasor analysis are developed, including impedance and the magnitude and phase response of linear circuits. The frequency responses of single and multi-stage amplifiers are analyzed. Differential amplifiers are introduced.
## EE 113 - Power Electronics (4 unit)
Power conversion circuits and techniques. Characterization and design of magnetic devices including transformers, reactors, and electromagnetic machinery. Characteristics of bipolar and MOS power semiconductor devices. Applications to motor control, switching power supplies, lighting, power systems, and other areas as appropriate.
## EE 114 - Power Systems Analysis (3 unit)
Introduction to electric power systems with emphasis on the transmission network. Load flow analysis and control. Economic operation. Introduction to stability analysis. Synchronous machine modeling. The control problem. Short circuit analysis.
## EE 117 - Electromagnetic Fields and Waves (4 unit)
Review of static electric and magnetic fields and applications; Maxwell's equations; transmission lines; propagation and reflection of plane waves; introduction to guided waves, microwave networks, and radiation and antennas. Minilabs on statics, transmission lines, and waves. Explanation of cellphone antennas, WiFi communication, and other wireless technologies.
## EE 118 - Introduction to Optical Engineering (4 unit)
Fundamental principles of optical systems. Geometrical optics and aberration theory. Stops and apertures, prisms, and mirrors. Diffraction and interference. Optical materials and coatings. Radiometry and photometry. Basic optical devices and the human eye. The design of optical systems. Lasers, fiber optics, and holography.
## EE 120 - Signals and Systems (4 unit)
Continuous and discrete-time transform analysis techniques with illustrative applications. Linear and time-invariant systems, transfer functions. Fourier series, Fourier transform, Laplace and Z-transforms. Sampling and reconstruction. Solution of differential and difference equations using transforms. Frequency response, Bode plots, stability analysis. Illustrated by analysis of communication systems and feedback control systems.
## EE 121 - Introduction to Digital Communication Systems (4 unit)
Introduction to the basic principles of the design and analysis of modern digital communication systems. Topics include source coding, channel coding, baseband and passband modulation techniques, receiver design, and channel equalization. Applications to design of digital telephone modems, compact disks, and digital wireless communication systems. Concepts illustrated by a sequence of MATLAB exercises.
## EE 122 - Introduction to Communication Networks (4 unit)
This course focuses on the fundamentals of the wired and wireless communication networks. The course covers both the architectural principles for making these networks scalable and robust, as well as the key techniques essential for analyzing and designing them. The topics include graph theory, Markov chains, queuing, optimization techniques, the physical and link layers, switching, transport, cellular networks and Wi-Fi.
## EE 123 - Digital Signal Processing (4 unit)
Discrete time signals and systems: Fourier and Z transforms, DFT, 2-dimensional versions. Digital signal processing topics: flow graphs, realizations, FFT, chirp-Z algorithms, Hilbert transform relations, quantization effects, linear prediction. Digital filter design methods: windowing, frequency sampling, S-to-Z methods, frequency-transformation methods, optimization methods, 2-dimensional filter design.
## EE 126 - Probability and Random Processes (4 unit)
This course covers the fundamentals of probability and random processes useful in fields such as networks, communication, signal processing, and control. Sample space, events, probability law. Conditional probability. Independence. Random variables. Distribution, density functions. Random vectors. Law of large numbers. Central limit theorem. Estimation and detection. Markov chains.
## EE 130 - Integrated-Circuit Devices (4 unit)
Overview of electronic properties of semiconductor. Metal-semiconductor contacts, pn junctions, bipolar transistors, and MOS field-effect transistors. Properties that are significant to device operation for integrated circuits. Silicon device fabrication technology.
## EE 131 - Semiconductor Electronics (3 unit)
Physics of solid-state electronics. Review of quantum-mechanical principles, crystal structure, lattice vibrations, band theory, electrons and holes, diffusion and drift, recombination, high-field phenomena, optical effects, device applications. Several one-hour minilabs done in pairs with the aid of a Teaching Assistant.
## EE 134 - Fundamentals of Photovoltaic Devices (4 unit)
This course is designed to give an introduction to, and overview of, the fundamentals of photovoltaic devices. Students will learn how solar cells work, understand the concepts and models of solar cell device physics, and formulate and solve relevant physical problems related to photovoltaic devices. Monocrystalline, thin film and third generation solar cells will be discussed and analyzed. Light management and economic considerations in a solar cell system will also be covered.
## EE 140 - Linear Integrated Circuits (4 unit)
Single and multiple stage transistor amplifiers. Operational amplifiers. Feedback amplifiers, 2-port formulation, source, load, and feedback network loading. Frequency response of cascaded amplifiers, gain-bandwidth exchange, compensation, dominant pole techniques, root locus. Supply and temperature independent biasing and references. Selected applications of analog circuits such as analog-to-digital converters, switched capacitor filters, and comparators. Hardware laboratory and design project.
## EE 142 - Integrated Circuits for Communications (4 unit)
Analysis and design of electronic circuits for communication systems, with an emphasis on integrated circuits for wireless communication systems. Analysis of noise and distortion in amplifiers with application to radio receiver design. Power amplifier design with application to wireless radio transmitters. Radio-frequency mixers, oscillators, phase-locked loops, modulators, and demodulators.
## EE 143 - Microfabrication Technology (4 unit)
Integrated circuit device fabrication and surface micromachining technology. Thermal oxidation, ion implantation, impurity diffusion, film deposition, expitaxy, lithography, etching, contacts and interconnections, and process integration issues. Device design and mask layout, relation between physical structure and electrical/mechanical performance. MOS transistors and poly-Si surface microstructures will be fabricated in the laboratory and evaluated.
## EE 144 - Fundamental Algorithms for Systems Modeling, Analysis, and Optimization (4 unit)
The modeling, analysis, and optimization of complex systems requires a range of algorithms and design software. This course reviews the fundamental techniques underlying the design methodology for complex systems, using integrated circuit design as example. Topics include design flows, discrete and continuous models and algorithms, and strategies for implementing algorithms efficiently and correctly in software. Laboratory assignments and a class project will expose students to state-of-the-art tools.
## EE 147 - Introduction to Microelectromechanical Systems (MEMS) (3 unit)
This course will teach fundamentals of micromachining and microfabrication techniques, including planar thin-film process technologies, photolithographic techniques, deposition and etching techniques, and the other technologies that are central to MEMS fabrication. It will pay special attention to teaching of fundamentals necessary for the design and analysis of devices and systems in mechanical, electrical, fluidic, and thermal energy/signal domains, and will teach basic techniques for multi-domain analysis. Fundamentals of sensing and transduction mechanisms including capacitive and piezoresistive techniques, and design and analysis of micmicromachined miniature sensors and actuators using these techniques will be covered.
## EE 192 - Mechatronic Design Laboratory (4 unit)
Design project course, focusing on application of theoretical principles in electrical engineering to control of a small-scale system, such as a mobile robot. Small teams of students will design and construct a mechatronic system incorporating sensors, actuators, and intelligence.
## EE 194 - Special Topics (1-4 unit)
Topics will vary semester to semester. See the Electrical Engineering announcements.
## EE 197 - Field Study (1-4 unit)
Students take part in organized individual field sponsored programs with off-campus companies or tutoring/mentoring relevant to specific aspects and applications of computer science on or off campus. Note Summer CPT or OPT students: written report required. Course does not count toward major requirements, but will be counted in the cumulative units toward graduation.
## EE 198 - Directed Group Study for Advanced Undergraduates (1-4 unit)
Group study of selected topics in electrical engineering, usually relating to new developments.
## EE 199 - Supervised Independent Study (1-4 unit)
Supervised independent study. Enrollment restrictions apply.
## EE 210 - Applied Electromagnetic Theory (3 unit)
Advanced treatment of classical electromagnetic theory with engineering applications. Boundary value problems in electrostatics. Applications of Maxwell's Equations to the study of waveguides, resonant cavities, optical fiber guides, Gaussian optics, diffraction, scattering, and antennas.
## EE 215 - Power Systems (3 unit)
Computer-aided analysis methods for power systems planning and operation. Demand forecasting. Reliability evaluation. Probabilistic production costs calculation. System planning optimization. Real-time security analysis and control. Power flows. State estimation. External network modeling. Optimal power flows. Transient stability.
## EE 216 - Antennas and Propagation (3 unit)
Application of Maxwell's Equations to the study of antennas and the propagation of electromagnetic waves. Basic concepts of antennas as devices in communication systems. Analysis of wire antennas, arrays of elements, horns, reflector and lens systems, frequency independent antennas. The propagation of waves over the earth and in inhomogeneous and random media.
## EE 217 - Microwave Circuits (3 unit)
Techniques of analog circuit technology in the high-frequency regime above 1 GHz. Transmission lines and distributed circuit elements; S-parameter design of high-frequency active circuits; computer-aided analysis and design. Emphasis on design of planar high-frequency integrated circuits employing CMOS and SiGe technology. Circuit building blocks for broadband wired and wireless communication will be emphasized including oscillators, low-noise amplifiers, and power amplifiers.
## EE 222 - Nonlinear Systems--Analysis, Stability and Control (3 unit)
Basic graduate course in non-linear systems. Second Order systems. Numerical solution methods, the describing function method, linearization. Stability - direct and indirect methods of Lyapunov. Applications to the Lure problem - Popov, circle criterion. Input-Output stability. Additional topics include: bifurcations of dynamical systems, introduction to the "geometric" theory of control for nonlinear systems, passivity concepts and dissipative dynamical systems.
## EE 223 - Stochastic Systems: Estimation and Control (3 unit)
Parameter and state estimation. System identification. Nonlinear filtering. Stochastic control. Adaptive control.
## EE 229 - Information Theory and Coding (3 unit)
<Formerly EECS 229B> Fundamental bounds of Shannon theory and their application. Source and channel coding theorems. Galois field theory, algebraic error-correction codes. Private and public-key cryptographic systems.
## EE 232 - Lightwave Devices (4 unit)
This course is designed to give an introduction and overview of the fundamentals of optoelectronic devices. Topics such as optical gain and absorption spectra, quantization effects, strained quantum wells, optical waveguiding and coupling, and hetero p-n junction will be covered. This course will focus on basic physics and design principles of semiconductor diode lasers, light emitting diodes, photodetectors and integrated optics. Practical applications of the devices will be also discussed.
## EE 233 - Lightwave Systems (3 unit)
Transmission properties of optical fibers - dispersion, attenuation, nonlinear effects (solitons). Direct-detection systems: analog and digital modulation, transmitter design, receiver design, noise properties of single and multimode fiber links, dependence on source coherence, subcarrier and multichannel CATV analog transmission issues the role of optical fiber amplifiers. Coherent communication: FM noise and modulation properties of laser diodes, quantum limited detection, homodyne and heterodyne detection of various formats, laser linewidth requirements, diversity issues. Lightwave networks - WDMA, FDMA, subcarrier, TDMA, and CDMA, relative merits. Topological issues - multihop (sore-and-forward) and hot-potato routing, the role of optical switching. Optical network access protocols. Optical interconnection in high speed circuit modules and computers.
## EE 238 - Superconductive Devices and Circuits (3 unit)
Introduction to superconductivity. Electron pairing. BCS and Ginzburg-Landau theories. Single-particle and Josephson tunneling. Electrodynamics of superconductors and Josephson junctions. Proximity effect. Mixed state in type II superconductors. Thin films. Applications in analog and digital circuits. Fabrication technology.
## EE 243 - Advanced IC Processing and Layout (3 unit)
The key processes for the fabrication of integrated circuits. Optical, X-ray, and e-beam lithography, ion implantation, oxidation and diffusion. Thin film deposition. Wet and dry etching and ion milling. Effect of phase and defect equilibria on process control.
## EE 249 - Embedded System Design: Models, Validation, and Synthesis (4 unit)
Principles of embedded system design. Focus on design methodologies and foundations. Platform-based design and communication-based design and their relationship with design time, re-use, and performance. Models of computation and their use in design capture, manipulation, verification, and synthesis. Mapping into architecture and system platforms. Performance estimation. Scheduling and real-time requirements. Synchronous languages and time-triggered protocols to simplify the design process. Simulation techniques for highly programmable platforms. Synthesis and successive refinement: meta-model of computation. Use of design tools and analysis of their capabilities and limitations: Ptolemy, POLIS, Metropolis, VCC, Co-ware.
## EE 290 - Advanced Topics in Electrical Engineering (1-4 unit)
The 290 courses cover current topics of research interest in electrical engineering. The course content may vary from semester to semester.
## EE 297 - Field Studies in Electrical Engineering (0-12 unit)
Supervised experience in off-campus companies relevant to specific aspects and applications of electrical engineering. Written report required at the end of the semester.
## EE 299 - Individual Research (1-12 unit)
Investigation of problems in electrical engineering.
## EECS 127 - Optimization Models in Engineering (4 unit)
This course offers an introduction to optimization models and their applications, ranging from machine learning and statistics to decision-making and control, with emphasis on numerically tractable problems, such as linear or constrained least-squares optimization.
## EECS 149 - Introduction to Embedded and Cyber Physical Systems (4 unit)
This course introduces students to the basics of modeling, analysis, and design of embedded, cyber-physical systems. Students learn how to integrate computation with physical processes to meet a desired specification. Topics include models of computation, control, analysis and verification, interfacing with the physical world, real-time behaviors, mapping to platforms, and distributed embedded systems. The course has a strong laboratory component, with emphasis on a semester-long sequence of projects.
## EECS 151 - Introduction to Digital Design and Integrated Circuits (3 unit)
An introduction to digital and system design. The material provides a top-down view of the principles, components, and methodologies for large scale digital system design. The underlying CMOS devices and manufacturing technologies are introduced, but quickly abstracted to higher-levels to focus the class on design of larger digital modules for both FPGAs (field programmable gate arrays) and ASICs (application specific integrated circuits). The class includes extensive use of industrial grade design automation and verification tools for assignments, labs and projects.  
The class has two lab options: ASIC Lab (EECS 151LA) and FPGA Lab (EECS 151LB). Students must enroll in at least one of the labs concurrently with the class.
## EECS 208 - Computational Principles for High-dimensional Data Analysis (4 unit)
Introduction to fundamental geometric and statistical concepts and principles of low-dimensional models for high-dimensional signal and data analysis, spanning basic theory, efficient algorithms, and diverse real-world applications. Systematic study of both sampling complexity and computational complexity for sparse, low-rank, and low-dimensional models – including important cases such as matrix completion, robust principal component analysis, dictionary learning, and deep networks.
## CS 152 - Computer Architecture and Engineering (4 unit)
Instruction set architecture, microcoding, pipelining (simple and complex). Memory hierarchies and virtual memory. Processor parallelism: VLIW, vectors, multithreading. Multiprocessors.
## CS 160 - User Interface Design and Development (4 unit)
The design, implementation, and evaluation of user interfaces. User-centered design and task analysis. Conceptual models and interface metaphors. Usability inspection and evaluation methods. Analysis of user study data. Input methods (keyboard, pointing, touch, tangible) and input models. Visual design principles. Interface prototyping and implementation methodologies and tools. Students will develop a user interface for a specific task and target user group in teams.
## CS 161 - Computer Security (4 unit)
Introduction to computer security. Cryptography, including encryption, authentication, hash functions, cryptographic protocols, and applications. Operating system security, access control. Network security, firewalls, viruses, and worms. Software security, defensive programming, and language-based security. Case studies from real-world systems.
## CS 162 - Operating Systems and System Programming (4 unit)
Basic concepts of operating systems and system programming. Utility programs, subsystems, multiple-program systems. Processes, interprocess communication, and synchronization. Memory allocation, segmentation, paging. Loading and linking, libraries. Resource allocation, scheduling, performance evaluation. File systems, storage devices, I/O systems. Protection, security, and privacy.
## CS 164 - Programming Languages and Compilers (4 unit)
Survey of programming languages. The design of modern programming languages. Principles and techniques of scanning, parsing, semantic analysis, and code generation. Implementation of compilers, interpreters, and assemblers. Overview of run-time organization and error handling.
## CS 167 - Introduction to Distributed Systems (4 unit)
Basic concepts of distributed systems. Network architecture and internet routing. Message passing layers and remote procedure call. Process migration. Distributed file systems and cache coherence. Server design for reliability, availability, and scalability. Internet security and electronic commerce. Sample applications from the WWW to email to parallel processing. Distributed system implementation to be done as course project.
## CS 168 - Introduction to the Internet: Architecture and Protocols (4 unit)
This course is an introduction to the Internet architecture. We will focus on the concepts and fundamental design principles that have contributed to the Internet's scalability and robustness and survey the various protocols and algorithms used within this architecture. Topics include layering, addressing, intradomain routing, interdomain routing, reliable delivery, congestion control, and the core protocols (e.g., TCP, UDP, IP, DNS, and HTTP) and network technologies (e.g., Ethernet, wireless).
## CS 169 - Software Engineering (4 unit)
Ideas and techniques for designing, developing, and modifying large software systems. Function-oriented and object-oriented modular design techniques, designing for re-use and maintainability. Specification and documentation. Verification and validation. Cost and quality metrics and estimation. Project team organization and management. Students will work in teams on a substantial programming project.
## CS 170 - Efficient Algorithms and Intractable Problems (4 unit)
Concept and basic techniques in the design and analysis of algorithms; models of computation; lower bounds; algorithms for optimum search trees, balanced trees and UNION-FIND algorithms; numerical and algebraic algorithms; combinatorial algorithms. Turing machines, how to count steps, deterministic and nondeterministic Turing machines, NP-completeness. Unsolvable and intractable problems.
## CS 171 - Cryptography (4 unit)
Cryptography or cryptology is the science of designing algorithms and protocols for enabling parties to communicate and compute securely in an untrusted environment (e.g. secure communication, digital signature, etc.) Over the last four decades, cryptography has transformed from an ad hoc collection of mysterious tricks into a rigorous science based on firm complexity-theoretic foundations.  This modern complexity-theoretic approach to cryptography will be the focus. E.g., in the context of encryption we will begin by giving a precise mathematical definition for what it means to be a secure encryption scheme and then give a construction (realizing this security notion) assuming various computational hardness assumptions (e.g. factoring).
## CS 172 - Computability and Complexity (4 unit)
Finite automata, Turing machines and RAMs. Undecidable, exponential, and polynomial-time problems. Polynomial-time equivalence of all reasonable models of computation. Nondeterministic Turing machines. Theory of NP-completeness: Cook's theorem, NP-completeness of basic problems. Selected topics in language theory, complexity and randomness.
## CS 174 - Combinatorics and Discrete Probability (4 unit)
Permutations, combinations, principle of inclusion and exclusion, generating functions, Ramsey theory. Expectation and variance, Chebychev's inequality, Chernov bounds. Birthday paradox, coupon collector's problem, Markov chains and entropy computations, universal hashing, random number generation, random graphs and probabilistic existence bounds.
## CS 176 - Algorithms for Computational Biology (4 unit)
Algorithms and probabilistic models that arise in various computational biology applications: suffix trees, suffix arrays, pattern matching, repeat finding, sequence alignment, phylogenetics, genome rearrangements, hidden Markov models, gene finding, motif finding, stochastic context free grammars, RNA secondary structure. There are no biology prerequisites for this course, but a strong quantitative background will be essential.
## CS 180 - Intro to Computer Vision and Computational Photography (4 unit)
This advanced undergraduate course introduces students to computing with visual data (images and video). We will cover acquisition, representation, and manipulation of visual information from digital photographs (image processing), image analysis and visual understanding (computer vision), and image synthesis (computational photography). Key algorithms will be presented, ranging from classical to contemporary, with an emphasis on using these techniques to build practical systems. The hands-on emphasis will be reflected in the programming assignments, where students will acquire their own images and develop, largely from scratch, image analysis and synthesis tools for real-world applications.
## CS 182 - Designing, Visualizing and Understanding Deep Neural Networks (4 unit)
Deep Networks have revolutionized computer vision, language technology, robotics and control. They have growing impact in many other areas of science and engineering. They do not however, follow a closed or compact set of theoretical principles. In Yann Lecun's words they require "an interplay between intuitive insights, theoretical modeling, 
practical implementations, empirical studies, and scientific analyses." This course attempts to cover that ground.
## CS 184 - Foundations of Computer Graphics (4 unit)
Techniques of modeling objects for the purpose of computer rendering: boundary representations, constructive solids geometry, hierarchical scene descriptions. Mathematical techniques for curve and surface representation. Basic elements of a computer graphics rendering pipeline; architecture of modern graphics display devices. Geometrical transformations such as rotation, scaling, translation, and their matrix representations. Homogeneous coordinates, projective and perspective transformations. Algorithms for clipping, hidden surface removal, rasterization, and anti-aliasing. Scan-line based and ray-based rendering algorithms. Lighting models for reflection, refraction, transparency.
## CS 186 - Introduction to Database Systems (4 unit)
Access methods and file systems to facilitate data access. Hierarchical, network, relational, and object-oriented data models. Query languages for models. Embedding query languages in programming languages. Database services including protection, integrity control, and alternative views of data. High-level interfaces including application generators, browsers, and report writers. Introduction to transaction processing. Database system implementation to be done as term project.
## CS 188 - Introduction to Artificial Intelligence (4 unit)
Ideas and techniques underlying the design of intelligent computer systems. Topics include search, game playing, knowledge representation, inference, planning, reasoning under uncertainty, machine learning, robotics, perception, and language understanding.
## CS 189 - Introduction to Machine Learning (4 unit)
Theoretical foundations, algorithms, methodologies, and applications for machine learning. Topics may include supervised methods for regression and classication (linear models, trees, neural networks, ensemble methods, instance-based methods); generative and discriminative probabilistic models; Bayesian parametric learning; density estimation and clustering; Bayesian networks; time series models; dimensionality reduction; programming projects covering a variety of real-world applications.
## CS 195 - Social Implications of Computer Technology (1 unit)
Topics include electronic community; the changing nature of work; technological risks; the information economy; intellectual property; privacy; artificial intelligence and the sense of self; pornography and censorship; professional ethics. Students will lead discussions on additional topics.
## CS 198 - Directed Group Studies for Advanced Undergraduates (1-4 unit)
Group study of selected topics in Computer Sciences, usually relating to new developments.
## CS 250 - VLSI Systems Design (4 unit)
Unified top-down and bottom-up design of integrated circuits and systems concentrating on architectural and topological issues. VLSI architectures, systolic arrays, self-timed systems. Trends in VLSI development. Physical limits. Tradeoffs in custom-design, standard cells, gate arrays. VLSI design tools.
## CS 253 - Software Engineering and Artificial Intelligence (3 unit)
Software Development Methodologies, emphasizing the basic ideas and discipline of software engineering and their comparative evaluation. Rapid Prototyping, Software Reuse and Automated Generation of Software. Software Design Methods. Object-oriented design and programming. Testing and validation. Software Reliability theory. Software Metrics and models. Sofware Tools and their issues. Software maintenance. Application of AI techniques. Problem solving using rule-based inference techniques. Design of Intelligent Software Development Environment (ISDE). Distributed Software Engineering. Distributed Planning, cooperation among knowledge bases, Intelligent Planning, the Coop Project. Term project demos and discussions.
## CS 254 - Topics in VLSI Chip Design and Implementation (4 unit)
<Formerly 292I>. Design implementation and testing of LSI/VLSI multi-project chips. Apply the design techniques learned in CS 250 to build systems on silicon chips. Design for testability, preparation of test system and systematic testing of the fabricated chips.
## CS 258 - Parallel Processors (3 unit)
In-depth study of the design, engineering, and evaluation of modern parallel computers. Fundamental design: naming, synchronization, latency, and bandwidth. Architectural evolution and technological driving forces. Parallel programming models, communication primitives, programming and compilation techniques, multiprogramming workloads and methodology for quantitative evaluation. Latency avoidance through replication in small-scale and large-scale shared memory designs; cache-coherency, protocols, directories, and memory consistency models. Message passing: protocols, storage management, and deadlock. Efficient network interface, protection, events, active messages, and coprocessors in large-scale designs. Latency tolerance through prefetching, multithreading, dynamic instruction scheduling, and software techniques. Network design: topology, packaging, k-ary n-cubes, performance under contention. Synchronization: global operations, mutual exclusion, and events. Alternative architectures: dataflow, SIMD, systoltic arrays.
## CS 261 - Security in Computer Systems (3 unit)
Graduate survey of modern topics in computer security, including protection, access control, distributed access security, firewalls, secure coding practices, safe languages, mobile code, and case studies from real-world systems. May also cover cryptographic protocols, privacy and anonymity, and/or other topics as time permits.
## CS 263 - Design of Programming Languages (3 unit)
Selected topics from: analysis, comparison, and design of programming languages, formal description of syntax and semantics, advanced programming techniques, structured programming, debugging, verification of programs and compilers, and proofs of correctness.
## CS 264 - Implementation of Programming Languages (4 unit)
Compiler construction. Lexical analysis, syntax analysis. Semantic analysis code generation and optimization. Storage management. Run-time organization.
## CS 265 - Compiler Optimization and Code Generation (3 unit)
Table-driven and retargetable code generators. Register management. Flow analysis and global optimization methods. Code optimization for advanced languages and architectures. Local code improvement. Optimization by program transformation. Selected additional topics. A term paper or project is required.
## CS 266 - Introduction to System Performance Analysis (3 unit)
Performance indices. Evaluation techniques. Measurement: instrumentation, design of experiments, interpretation of results. Simulation modeling: simulator design, model calibration, statistical analysis of output data. Introduction to analytic modeling. Workload characterization. Tuning, procurement, and capacity planning application. Program performance evaluation. File and I/O system optimization. CPU Scheduling and architecture performance analysis.
## CS 268 - Computer Networks (3 unit)
Distributed systems, their notivations, applications, and organization. The network component. Network architectures. Local and long-haul networks, technologies, and topologies. Data link, network, and transport protocols. Point-to-point and broadcast networks. Routing and congestion control. Higher-level protocols. Naming. Internetworking. Examples and case studies.
## CS 269 - Advanced Topics in Distributed Computing Systems (2 unit)
Building distributed computing systems, issues and techniques; communication, distributed data, identification of resources and their distributed management, decentralized synchronization mechanisms, security and protection, performance and modeling of distributed systems, programming language and system support for distributed applications.
## CS 270 - Combinatorial Algorithms and Data Structures (3 unit)
Design and analysis of efficient algorithms for combinatorial problems. Network flow theory, matching theory, matroid theory; augmenting-path algorithms; branch-and-bound algorithms; data structure techniques for efficient implementation of combinatorial algorithms; analysis of data structures; applications of data structure techniques to sorting, searching, and geometric problems.
## CS 271 - Randomness and Computation (3 unit)
Computational applications of randomness and computational theories of randomness. Approximate counting and uniform generation of combinatorial objects, rapid convergence of random walks on expander graphs, explicit construction of expander graphs, randomized reductions, Kolmogorov complexity, pseudo-random number generation, semi-random sources.
## CS 273 - Foundations of Parallel Computation (3 unit)
<Formerly 292K>. Fundamental theoretical issues in designing parallel algorithms and architectures. Shared memory models of parallel computation. Parallel algorithms for linear algegra, sorting, Fourier Transform, recurrence evaluation, and graph problems. Interconnection network based models. Algorithm design techniques for networks like hypercubes, shuffle-exchanges, threes, meshes and butterfly networks. Systolic arrays and techniques for generating them. Message routing.
## CS 274 - Computational Geometry (3 unit)
<Formerly 292T>. Constructive problems in computational geometry: convex hulls, triangulations, Voronoi diagrams, arrangements of hyperplanes; relationships among these problems. Search problems: advanced data structures; subdivision search; various kinds of range searches. Models of computation; lower bounds.
## CS 277 - Concrete Complexity (3 unit)
The study of inherent complexity of specific computational problems. Circuit complexity, branching programs, decision tree models, sorting and selection, evasive graph properties, algebraic complexity, communication complexity, VLSI complexity, time/space trade-offs.
## CS 278 - Machine-Based Complexity Theory (3 unit)
Properties of abstract complexity measures; Determinism vs. nondeterminism; time vs. space; complexity hierarchies; aspects of the P-NP question; relative power of various abstract machines.
## CS 281 - Machine Learning (3 unit)
Learning from the point of view of artificial intelligence with contributions from philosophy and psychology. Readings and discussion will cover concept learning, compilation and intelligent caching, knowledge-based generalization, reasoning by analogy, inductive learning, architectures for general learning systems, knowledge-level analysis of learning systems. A substantial project will be undertaken.
## CS 282 - Algebraic Algorithms (3 unit)
Theory and construction of symbolic algebraic computer programs. Polynomial arithmetic, GCD, factorization, integration of elementary functions, analytic approximation, simplification, design of computer systems and languages for symbolic manipulation.
## CS 285 - Deep Reinforcement Learning, Decision Making, and Control (3 unit)
Intersection of control, reinforcement learning, and deep learning. Deep learning methods, which train large parametric function approximators, achieve excellent results on problems that require reasoning about unstructured real-world situations (e.g., computer vision, speech recognition, NLP). Advanced treatment of the reinforcement learning formalism, the most critical model-free reinforcement learning algorithms (policy gradients, value function and Q-function learning, and actor-critic), a discussion of model-based reinforcement learning algorithms, an overview of imitation learning, and a range of advanced topics (e.g., exploration, model-based learning with video prediction, transfer learning, multi-task learning, and meta-learning).
## CS 287 - Advanced Robotics (3 unit)
Advanced topics related to current research in algorithms and artificial intelligence for robotics. Planning, control, and estimation for realistic robot systems, taking into account: dynamic constraints, control and sensing uncertainty, and non-holonomic motion constraints.
## CS 288 - Natural Language Processing (4 unit)
Methods and models for the analysis of natural (human) language data.  Topics include: language modeling, speech recognition, linguistic analysis (syntactic parsing, semantic analysis, reference resolution, discourse modeling), machine translation, information extraction, question answering, and computational linguistics techniques.
## CS 289 - Knowledge Representation and Use in Computers (3 unit)
Fundamentals of knowledge representation and use in computers. Predicate calculus, non-monotonic logics, probability and decision theory, and their use in capturing commonsense and expert knowledge. Theorem-provers, planning systems belief networks and influence diagrams as reasoning methods. Integrated architectures for intelligent agents. A project will be undertaken.
## CS 297 - Field Studies in Computer Science (0-12 unit)
Supervised experience in off-campus companies relevant to specific aspects and applications of electrical engineering and/or computer science. Written report required at the end of the semester.
